We as students are provided with scholarships
in some cases by EPSRC and the Alumni of the
university.
We are also allowed to work in the department
for the teaching terms and provide assistance
during the exam period, invigilating exams.
There’s great financial support for international
students.
It’s actually called the Birmingham International
Scholarship.
It’s for Maths students who have qualified
to do a PhD in Mathematics or even to do an
MPhil, specifically for international students.
The conferences I went to this year started
in Galway in Ireland with the International
Conference.
That was great, it was an entire week and
I was invited, I was a speaker so it was really
fun to do and afterwards there was a conference
at Oxford, again another talk and that was
fun.
And lately the big one has been two weeks
in Venice for a summer school.
So there are some speakers that I knew that
focused on a particular topic in Group Theory
for the whole two weeks and it was a really
class time.
One of the great things about being an EPSRC
funded student is that these conferences are
all paid for, including one international
conference.
So it really makes the experience affordable.
We have quite an active post-graduate society.
I think there are two key events that we have
every year, irrespective of financial situations,
and those are the Christmas Party and Dinner
and the Summer barbecue.
We also play football once a week and go bowling
regularly.
We also play pool on Tuesdays every now and
then.
We have a weekly cake club, like we’re just
having now, where someone brings some cake
in and we take turns on a rota, so you can
either make or buy a cake, so it’s good
for socialising.
It’s quite relaxed and people are easily
approachable and make you feel welcome, especially
if you’re an international student or for
anybody at all.
It’s always difficult leaving home.
I think it’s important, especially if you’re
doing a PhD because you’re independent so
you need to talk to other people sometimes,
so yeah, it’s really good.
From the point of view of a Maths PhD specifically,
it opens up a massive number of graduate careers
to you that may not necessarily come directly
out of an undergraduate Maths degree.
I’m in the Applied side so I can go and
work for an engineering company, as one of
my previous colleagues has done.
Several have gone into actuary and accountancy
so it’s quite varied what we can do.
The fact of the matter is that almost everyone
applying to these high-end jobs now has an
undergraduate degree and a PhD is a way of
further differentiating yourself from everyone
else who will be applying for that job.